GUEST: The story is that Pancho Villa killed
a man in Mexico City and took the watch off
of him.
Then... he ended up in Alpine, Texas, where
he traded this watch to Mr. Kasner for a brand-new
Buick automobile.
Mr. Kasner sold it to a Dr. Middlebrook from
Del Rio, Texas.
My father told the doctor, "If you ever want
to sell that watch, please give me first chance
at it."
Dr. Middlebrook died several years later,
and his widow called my father, and my father
bought the watch.
And he never would tell anybody what he paid
for it.
(chuckles) Now, I-I cannot, uh, I cannot prove
any of this, and believe me, I've tried.
GUEST: I understand.
APPRAISER: Well, let's take a look at the
watch
GUEST: All right.
APPRAISER: and talk a little bit about what
could be true about the story.
Um, if you examine the watch, on the dial,
it does have the name of a jewelry store in
Mexico City.
La Esmeralda.
It is from the era that it could actually
be-- the story could be true.
GUEST: Right, right.
APPRAISER: The watch is from before the turn
of the century.
La Esmeralda is closed up.
I had a friend in Mexico City check that out.
The initials of the original owner are mounted
on the case, which is 18-karat gold, in rose
diamonds.
And then there's a watch fob charm in 18-karat
gold that matches that opens as a locket.
There are no pictures left in it, which is
too bad.
GUEST: No.
APPRAISER: Pancho Villa probably took them
out.
There are diamonds all the way down the chain,
which is in two colors of gold.
The case work is French or Swiss, and the
watch movement is a Swiss chronograph, which
means it has four separate dials on the front.
It does moon phase, it counts off the days
of the month, it has a stopwatch function
that works by pushing this here.
The lever here is to make it chime, which
is sometimes called blind man's function.
People who couldn't see could tell the time
by pushing this lever and counting the chimes.
GUEST: Oh, how interesting.
APPRAISER: Um, let me...
It is a separate little spring that makes
it ding. (quiet chiming) Faintly, faintly
hear it.
GUEST: I love to hear that.
APPRAISER: It's considered a very, very complicated
watch, because each dial has to have a separate
part of the watch movement.
Uh, it's enhanced by the fact that the materials
in it are very, very high quality and that
the chain and-and fob match the watch and
are original to it.
Uh, would you have a guess as to how much
this watch might be worth in today's market?
GUEST: No idea.
That's-that's, uh, that's what I'm doing here.
APPRAISER: Uh, somewhere between $30,000 and
$50,000.
It's magnificent.
GUEST: Would it be worth more if I could prove
the story?
APPRAISER: Definitely, definitely.
GUEST: That's what I thought.
I've tried.
APPRAISER: But it is possible from the serial
number of the watch to find out for whom it
was originally ordered and then trace the
story back that way.
GUEST: Well, that'll be a nice job for you,
Fred.
APPRAISER: Take some time.
GUEST: (chuckles): Yeah.
APPRAISER: Thank you very much for coming
to show it to us.
It's a fabulous watch.
GUEST: Thank you.
Thank you, everybody.
It was fun.